So, as of right now what we've done,
is we've implemented throughout our application different invocations to our API.
Now that worked fine because now not only is our data living locally,
but it's also living and being modified in a database somewhere.
But, the problem is once we started adding in all of this API code,
all of our component logic got a little bit
messy and in fact what we're doing here is now we're
mixing our data fetching code with our API with our component UI code.
Now that's not the worst thing in the world,
but it would be nice to keep those two things separate.
So, we would have, in one part of our application all of our data
fetching logic and in our components all of our UI logic.
If you remember back to what let's say
our removeItem method looked like before we added in all of our API code,
was it just looks like that.
RemoveItem was invoked and then we dispatched the remove todo action.
This code was pretty easy to reason about,
removeItem was invoked and so we remove an item from our store.
But now, we have a little bit more we have to handle because we are dealing with API.
Well, what if there is a way to make our action creators a little more powerful?
So, what if there's a way to encapsulate all of our API data
fetching logic into the action creator itself.
So, instead of invoking the removeTodoAction,
what if we created a new action creator.
So, we will call this.props.store.dispatch.
We'll call this action creator,
handleDeleteTodo passing it the todo.
And then what if we take all of this logic,
cut it, put it inside of this handleDeleteTodo action creator.
And now our code is back to what it used to look
like where we just dispatch a single action.
So, that looks great,
but now we need to figure out how to make this work.
So, let's head up back to
our action creators and let's make a brand new one here called handleDeleteTodo,
which takes in a todo item.
So, before what our action creators were doing,
where they were just returning an object which
described the specific event that is occurring.
But, if you look at all the logic that this action creator has to do now,
it has to dispatch.
It has to make an API request and then it has to dispatch again if it needs to.
So, we need a way first to get access to dispatch.
What if there is a way
here and we've seen this pattern before specifically in middleware.
What if there was a way to instead of returning an object,
we just return a function and this function can be pass dispatch.
So, then we can get rid of this.props.store and just dispatch the specific action.
This would be awesome because this would enable us to do what
we're doing below where we just have to dispatch the single action,
the single action creator,
and then it handles all of this logic for us.
Well what if we created a custom middleware in order
to support this kind of functionality?
So, what we would have to do is whenever an action is dispatched,
if that action is a function,
then we invoke it passing it dispatch and if it's not,
then we just dispatch as we normally would.
So, inside or down here in our middleware,
what I'm talking about is something like this.
We'll call this a thunk because technically that's what it is.
So, we have our weird little pattern here,
which takes in a store,
next as well as the action.
Then inside of here, we will say,
if the action equals a function,
which it will when we
do something like this or instead of returning an object as the action,
we return a function as the action.
So, when the action is a function,
then what we want to do is invoke that action passing it store.dispatch and if it's not,
then we just want to invoke next passing it the action.
So, now that we have this new middleware,
we need to inform Redux about it.
So we can just come in here and add it as the first middleware in our chain.
And then now what should happen is when we remove a todo item,
we will dispatch handleDeleteTodo and that will encapsulate all of this functionality
inside of it so we're no longer mixing our data fetching logic with our UI logic.
So, if we hit "Refresh" and then we delete a todo item,
everything is working normally.
But again, instead of that logic being inside of our component,
it's now tucked away inside of an action creator.
And in fact this pattern is so common it's actually
a library that we can include here in our script tag.
So, it's called the Redux thunk.
So, now what we can do is instead of using our own thunk middleware,
we can go ahead and delete this.
And as the first argument instead of our own thunk,
we can just say ReduxThunk.default because we included the ReduxThunk script.
And then now everything will work the exact same,
but instead of having our own thunk,
we are including the official Redux thunk package.